Essay 1 - Leadership Plans for Upcoming Academic Year
In 150 words or fewer (1,050 character limit), please describe your goals for the upcoming academic year (July 2012 – June 2013) to further develop your leadership and create a positive effect. Please include your plan of how to achieve those goals.

Essay 1: *
I founded Hackers@Berkeley one year ago. In these past two semesters, we've become the largest EECS student organization on campus with membership of over 500 students. We don't have general meetings, we don't have socials, and we don't have banquets or formals. So you might wonder, what does this club even do, and why would anyone want to join? Hackers@Berkeley was founded to teach. We hold weekly workshops, monthly hackathons, and tutorial events around midterms. We harbor a community of students who are passionate about hacking. Last year we accomplished our goals gaining widespread interest within the EE and CS student bodies. Countless members now show off their creations and internship offers as a result. Next year we're going to set out to help those that need it most: the students least comfortable with the practice of their engineering. As a student organization, we're unique in that people come to our events not because of free food or resume drop off; they come to learn. We have a lot more to teach.


Essay 2 - Leadership Philosophy
In 150 words or fewer (1,050 character limit), please succinctly explain your leadership philosophy and its specific application to the activities you listed above.
The greatest misconception of leadership is that it is somehow glamorous. There may be pride, but certainly no glamour. I remember an article describing a student with a mile-long list of leadership titles, but threw a fit when rejected from a top university. Wouldn't we all love to be president of this, vice chair of that, and a director of marketing for good measure. Great for the resume of course, but what about real leadership? What about creating something from nothing? The organization of like minds for a greater cause? Does regality invite contribution? This past year Hackers@Berkeley was run by 15 students. None of them had or wanted titles. We have another 12 incoming students joining the leadership this year. They were not chosen. They simply started showing up to leadership meetings and making contributions. Leadership isn't about titles or exclusivity, it's about passion. In Hackers@Berkeley, anyone who wants to lead can be a leader. The only requirement is demonstrated contribution and indifference towards privilege.


Essay 2: *

 

Essay 3 - Effective and Inspirational Leadership
In 500 words or fewer (3,500 character limit), and based on the activities listed above, please answer all parts of the following:

Describe the leadership role(s) you are most proud of that you held between July 2011 and June 2012.
Explain the most important direct effect you caused while in that role.
Describe how you motivated your peers to perform at their highest level in pursuit of a common goal.
Please be specific in your description. For example, include the number of people involved, details of your leadership process, the measurable outcome/results, and so forth.


Hacking. Sounds scary doesn't it. Hacking sounds like something that belongs in Mission Impossible, not an academic institution; but I'm not talking about breaking into government computer systems, but rather the engineering of creation. Who is a hacker? How about Sergey Brin, Larry Page, Mark Zuckerberg, Bill Gates, Steve Wozniak -- the list goes on. A student programmer hacking is as natural as an English major composing prose or a fine arts student sketching in a notebook. Hackers don't use pens, they don't have brushes, but by typing away on the keyboard or soldering pins to a breadboard hackers can create. In Fall of 2011 I  worked with two friends to recruit 15 students to create the Hackers@Berkeley organization. We teach students to hack. We show them how they can take what they've learned in class and create. Today Hackers@Berkeley's membership exceeds 500. We have 15 officers. Zero banquets; zero formals, zero socials.
During a recent Hackers@Berkeley event located at Stanford, several students pointed out a brushed aluminum plaque that hung in the atrium of their engineering building. On it listed several hundred donors, from mutual funds, to Fortune 100 corporations, to individual gifts. These were the benefactors of the beaming matte structure sheathed in glass in which we stood. Everyone knew Stanford is a private school, they've got the funds to build such lavish commons for their students. My classmates weren't bothered by that. They were bothered by the fact that we were at the Cal Vs Stanford Big Hack, at Stanford, but there were 86 of us and 15 of them. The Big Hack is an event that Hackers@Berkeley holds that pits the top computer science talent from each school against each other in a 24-hour build-whatever-you-can competition. We won the competition 5-1, capturing 1st, 3rd, 4th, 5th, and an honorable mention. My classmates asked, why would Intel become a platinum sponsor of Stanford when clearly the Berkeley computer science students are so passionate? Berkeley EECS students haven't gained the widespread recognition but thats what we're here to change. Hackers@Berkeley is 500 students passionate about what they build with their engineering talents. Each of them is ready to teach what they know to anyone who'll listen. I wish I could tell you my leadership role, but instead I'll tell you what I told the first members of Hackers@Berkeley:
When I entered Berkeley in Fall 2009 I had rather limited programming experience. On whim I entered a hackathon competition with my roommate. Somehow we ended up winning 3rd place. That started it. Soon I started building software with anyone who was willing. After our problem sets we would stay and crank out some code. I always tell this story to EECS students that are new to hacking on their own projects: In Fall 2010 I was selected for an interview with Facebook. I didn't show up to the interview, but still given an offer when a Facebook engineer browsed my resume's list of hacks that I had scrappily built with my friends. The reason I didn't show up to the interview because I was working on something much larger; I dropped out of school after Fall 2010 to found Flotype. Those hacks I had built caught the attention of investors and I raised a $1.4 million from top Silicon Valley venture capitalists, the same guys that funded Google, Facebook, Twitter, among others. I've since moved on from Flotype (the VC money remains with the Flotype team) but I have hacking to thank for those opportunities.

